---
title: Rainbow in the Storm
date: "2019-07-09"
description: ''
---

Last year I saw a sweater pattern by knitdiaries on Instagram and fell in love. It was everything that my knitting had not been for several years: oversized, zero shaping, and super colorful. The oversized and zero shaping style has been appealing to me more and more lately as I tend to put more emphasis on being cozy, but even still, my knitting has been dark or neutral for quite a while now. Thot is still the case for the most part, but something about the [Rainbow in the Storm]('https://www.ravelry.com/patterns/library/rainbow-in-the-storm') sweater just spoke to me. I think it had to do with the fact that since the colorful colors are held together with a neutral color, the rainbow is more muted. It is still very much an obvious rainbow, but a little more… mature perhaps? 

The sweater is knit out of fingering yarn held double. I decided to use Voolenvine Yarns Footsie in the “Grimm” colorway for the main color, which was my only purchase for this sweater. I was determined to use stash colors for the rainbow, since I have quite a collection of sock yarns. I went through my stash and played with a lot of color combinations, and it wasn’t until I settled on my rainbow that I realized I picked nothing but my hand-dyed yarns. I decided that I liked the idea of another Gynx + [Voolenvine]('http://voolenvine.com') collaboration, so I set forth.

The top three colors were older colorways of mine. The pink was for a kit collaboration done a few years ago, the gold is my Gold Saucer colorway, and the orange my Red XIII colorway. The rest of the colors were all one of a kind skeins I had done for myself near the end of my career, so it was a nice balance of some of my original colorways and some of the last things to come out of my dyeing. I debated a while about whether the top pink color and the bottom pink color should be switched, and now seeing it all together, I think it might have been slightly better if I had switched them. Regardless, I still adore this sweater.

I had grand plans of finishing this by the end of 2018, but as I got busy with my coding bootcamp and other things, knitting fell off my radar for a while. I made it halfway through the second sleeve, just hours from finishing it, and completely stopped working on it for months. Once I finished my bootcamp in March, I took a day off before I started my job search and finally finished it, just days after the last cold front. My knitting stopped again, until after I got into the swing of things at my new job and my mojo returned. Finally I got FO pictures a couple weeks ago and can share this sweater with you all.

Now that it’s done, I absolutely love this sweater. My past several garments had been cardigans, so this was a nice change of pace. It was a pretty simple, mindless knit, so perfect for multitasking. Since fit isn’t a huge issue with this, I didn’t bother with a gauge swatch, and the risk worked out for me this time. As for skill level, this sweater requires being able to knit in the round, manage knitting with two strands held together, knitting and purling, and a little bit of short rows. I’d say if you’re comfortable with two strands held together, knitting, and purling, you shouldn’t have any issues with this sweater.