---
title: Former Dyer
date: "2019-07-03"
description: ''
---

Hello, and welcome to my new blog! It’s been a while since I’ve tried this writing thing, but making a dedicated site for Gynx Handmade has been on my list for such a long time now. I kept putting it off because I wanted to be able to make it perfect, but I realized if I waited to hit that standard, it would never happen. So now I’m putting up something very imperfect and will tweak this site as I go/learn.

Considering you found this page, I’m assuming you already know who I am. In all likelihood, you are probably my mother (hi Mom!). Just in case though, a brief introduction:

I am the former dyer behind Gynx Yarns. I started my business in 2011 when I was still in college working on my BFA in Fiber Arts, and ran it through the fall of 2018. I no longer dye, even for personal use, for health reasons. I have been a knitter since 2015, I’ve sewed on and off since I was a child, I’ve occasionally picked up a crochet hook here and there, and dabbled in all sorts of other crafty hobbies. I live in Dallas, Texas with my husband Jose and our four (yes four!) cats: Othello, Augustus, Aurora, and Athena. I am currently working as a web developer.

My intention for this blog is to be a space where I can share any of the things I’ve been making, and possibly podcast episodes if I happen to record more. However, I also want to share my insights as a former dyer, and I feel like the best place to start with this blog is to tell the story of my business closing.

Near the end of 2017, my business was doing well. I was wrapping up another busy holiday season (self striping holiday yarns were probably what I was best known for). However, I started to notice my asthma had been getting worse. I normally only use my inhaler before I work out, but I was reaching for it a few times a day. I have always been careful with dyes, worn the right respirator, changing the filters, and cleaning up any spills immediately. For most people, that seems to be enough. For me however, I started noticing a direct correlation with dye days and my breathing issues.

Fast forward to April 2018. I just finished vending at DFW Fiber Fest, and I had been feeling pretty awful up to the show. However, I didn’t do any dyeing for the week leading up to the show, and I felt the best I had in a long time. That’s when I finally decided to tell Jose about the connection I had been observing. I had been avoiding it because I knew it meant the end of my business, but I had no idea what I was going to do with my life. It was scary, but the pace that my asthma was getting worse was scarier, so I knew I had to face it. 

I knew that if I was going to change careers, I didn’t want to run my own business anymore. I always loved the dyeing, but the business side was always more of a necessary evil. Looking back now and being honest with myself, my business probably needed to end regardless of my health issues. All I wanted to do was dye yarn, but in the grand scheme of things, that’s a small part of running a dyeing business. I decided that I wanted to go into something more stable, but I had no idea what. Jose brought up programming as an option, which is something he’s encouraged me to try since we were in college. Considering I had nothing to lose, I started self teaching that April, and ultimately decided to go down that path.

The rest of that spring and summer were spent running my business and coding in my free time, but for a while only Jose and I knew I was closing my business. I think it was around June that I told a few family members and close fiber friends, but it wasn’t until August 31 that I publicly announced I would be closing shop. I was scared for the reaction, but it was ultimately	a very supportive reaction, and people were understanding and mainly concerned about my health. Following that was a lot of wrapping up loose ends, sending out final orders, and selling equipment I would no longer need. In November I started classes to focus on coding full time, and all crafting stopped at that point. I did a bit of knitting around Christmas, but up until I started my first developer job in May, priorities have been elsewhere. I’m happy to say that I’m back though, and I really missed being an active part of this community. I have a lot more to say about being a former dyer: things I didn’t realize I would miss, going to a fiber show as an attendee instead of a vendor, etc, but those will be later posts. For now, thank you for reading!